Q1 - What kind of language is Python ?
Python is :

Interpreted (most of its implementations execute instructions directly, without previously compiling a program into machine level instructions)
High-level programming language (provides strong abstraction from internal details of computer; and is human readable)
General-purpose programming language (the language could be used to write wide variety of applications)
Q2 - Why is Python called scripting language ?
Python supports scripts: programs written for a Python run-time environment that automate the execution of tasks. These tasks could alternatively be executed one-by-one by a user.

Q3 - What are the benefits of Python ?
There are many benefits in using Python language. Some of them are :

Syntax of Python is easy to learn.
Python is a high-level programming language. So, it provides a good human readability.
Python is cross-platform. Scripts written on an operating system could be run on another with ease.
Python has an active community. Many resources and help is available online.
Python is extensible. Large variety of third-party modules are available.
Python is free. Python programming language can be used for projects without any cost.
Q4 - Give a simple example for Python script.
A simple example where a variable is initialized and printed to the console.

i = 10
print(i)
Try Online
Q5 - How to execute a Python Script ?
If python is installed on the machine, command prompt or shell could be used for executing python scripts with python command.

python fileName.py
Q6 - What is Python Shell ?
Python Shell is an interactive command line interface. Python statements can be executed using Python Shell.

Q7 - How do you start Python shell ?
python command will start python shell.

$ python
Python 3.5.2 (v3.5.2:4def2a2901a5, Jun 25 2016, 22:18:55) [MSC v.1900 64 bit (AMD64)] on win32
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>>
Q8 - What is the command to get Python Version ?
Python Version is displayed when Python Shell is started. Otherwise, without starting Python Shell,python –version  command can be used.

$ python --version
Python 3.5.2
Q9 - Which coding convention is preferred for Python ?
PEP-8[https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/] is the style guide recommended by Python Organization.

Q10 - What are the datatypes available in Python ?

 
Following are the in-built datatypes in Python programming :

Boolean
Numeric
int
float
long
complex
Sequence
String
List
Tuple
Set
Mapping
Dictionary
Q11 - Which conditional statements are available in Python ?
Conditional statements are the programming statements which alter the course of execution based on a condition.

Like other functional programming languages, Python has following conditional statements.

Python If
Python If-Else
Python For
Python While
Conditional Statements are also called Control Statements.

Q12 - Which looping statements are available in Python ?
Looping statements are those which repeat the execution of a set of statements in a cyclic manner based on a condition.

Python For
Python While
Q13 - What is the syntax for Python If statement ?
Python If statement contains if keyword, condition followed by colon symbol (:), and then the statements of if block with indentation.

if condition:
    statement1
    statement2
    statementN
Try Online
Condition should evaluate to a boolean value (true or false).

Q14 - What is the syntax for Python For loop ?
for variable in sequence:
    statement1
    statement2
    statementN
Try Online
for is keyword
sequence can be a list, string, typle or rance
for ith iteration, the ith element of sequence is loaded to variable
statements has to written with indentation
Q15 - Give an example of Python Tuple ?
Tuples are used to store values of different datatypes.

tuple1 = ('Sarath', 'Varma', 1997, 'Kochi')
tuple2 = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5 )
Try Online
Elements are separated by comma and are enclosed in parenthesis.

Q16 - How do you access elements of Tuple ?
Like in an Array, elements of Tuple can be accessed using index. Index of first element is 0, and index of last element in the tuple is (length of tuple – 1).

Q17 - How are comments written in Python code ?
Single Line Comments start with # followed by comment content.

Multiple Line Comments are enclosed between triple single quotes or triple double quotes.

# single line commenet
 
'''Mulitpl
   Line
   Commnet'''
 
"""Another
   Multiple line
   comment"""
Try Online
Comments improve the readability of a program.

Q18 - Give an example of Python Class.
Following is an example of Python Class.

class Student:
   'Common base class for all students'
 
   def __init__(self, name, rollNumber):
      self.name = name
      self.rollNumber = rollNumber
    
   def displayStudent(self):
      print "Name : ", self.name,  ", Roll Number: ", self.rollNumber
Try Online
The Student class contains a constructor for setting the initial state and a method to display student information.

Q19 - Python 2.x or 3.x. Which one would you choose and why ?
Python 2.x is legacy, Python 3.x is the present and future of the language.

Q20 - How do you declare a variable in Python ?
How do you convert float, int, complex value, tuple, list or dictionary to a string ? str() function can be used to convert other data type value to string. str() accepts float, int, complex value, tuple, list or dictionary as an argument and returns string value.

Q21 - What are the mutable builtin datatypes available ?
Mutable datatype are those

List
Sets
Dictionaries
Q22 - What are the immutable builtin datatypes available ?
Immutable datatypes are those

Strings
Tuples
Numbers
Q23 - How to find substring of a string ?
str[start_index:end_index] returns substring of a string, where

str is the main string
start_index is position of substring from which it starts in main string. If not provided, default value is 0.
end_index is the ending index of substring in the main string. If not provided, default value is length of the main string.